For any job, you need certain
skills to be successful,
and many of these
core skills are
transferable from one
role to the next.
No matter what job
you currently have,
you likely have many
core skills already.
Having a diverse background
enhances your core skills,
which means your
personal experiences
and perspectives are
especially valuable.
In this video, we'll discuss
both transferable and
technical skills that are
particularly useful for
a security analyst.
Transferable skills
are skills from
other areas that can apply
to different careers.
Technical skills may apply
to several professions as well.
However, at times they
may require knowledge of
specific tools,
procedures, and policies.
Let's discuss some core
transferable skills
you may already have
that will benefit you
in a career as a
security analyst.
Communication is a
transferable skill
for a security analyst.
They will often need to describe
certain threats, risks,
or vulnerabilities to people who
may not have a
technical background.
For example, security
analysts may be tasked with
interpreting and
communicating policies
and procedures to
other employees.
Or analysts may be asked
to report findings to
their supervisors, so
the appropriate actions
can be taken to secure
the organization.
Another transferable
skill is collaboration.
Security analysts often work
in teams with engineers,
digital forensic investigators,
and program managers.
For example, if you are working
to roll out a new
security feature,
you will likely have
a project manager,
an engineer, and an ethical
hacker on your team.
Security analysts also
need to be able to
analyze complex scenarios
that they may encounter.
For example,
a security analyst may need
to make recommendations
about how
different tools can
support efficiency
and safeguard an organization's
internal network.
The last transferable skill that
we'll discuss is
problem-solving.
Identifying a security problem
and then diagnosing
it and providing
solutions is a necessary skill
to keep business
operations safe.
Understanding threat actors
and identifying trends
can provide insight on how
to handle future threats.
Okay, now that we've covered
some important
transferable skills,
let's discuss some
technical skills
that security analysts
need to develop.
A basic understanding of
programming languages is
an important skill
to develop because
security analysts can
use programming to
automate tasks and
identify error messages.
Like learning any
other language,
learning a programming language
may seem challenging at first.
However, this
certificate program
assumes no prior
programming experience,
so we'll start at
the very beginning
and provide several
opportunities for
hands-on practice with
languages like Python and SQL.
Another important technical
skill is knowing how to use
security information and event
management, or SIEM, tools.
Security professionals use
SIEM tools to identify and
analyze security threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities.
For example, a SIEM
tool may alert
you that an unknown user
has accessed the system.
In the event of an unknown
user accessing the system,
you may use computer forensics
to investigate the incident.
Now, let's discuss
computer forensics.
Similar to an investigator and
a forensic scientist working in
the criminal justice system,
digital forensic
investigators will
attempt to identify, analyze,
and preserve criminal
evidence within networks,
computers, and
electronic devices.
Keep in mind that
you may already have
some of the core skills
we've discussed.
And if you don't have the
technical skills, that's okay!
This program is designed to
support you in
learning those skills.
For example, over
the past seven years
working in cybersecurity,
I've learned that security
analysts need to have
intellectual curiosity
and the motivation
to keep learning in
order to succeed.
Personally, I dedicate time
on a regular basis
towards learning
more Python and SQL
skills in order
to meet the demands of the
projects I'm working on.
You'll get to learn
about Python and
SQL later in this program.
As you continue this journey,
you'll build the
knowledge and skills
you need to enter
the security field.